Now let us return by address.
We have seen that our function can return the address also.
So for that I will write one function which returns or pointer of type integer and here I will declare
some variable x with some value and here I'll write return address of x.
Let us see what happens.
I got a warning here.
That address of stack memory associated with the local variable x return.
So the problem here is that I cannot return the address of local variables.
Olivier said that once the function ends, this variable x will be lost from the memory D located from
the memory.
So we should not use these local variables.
So then which type of addresses we can return?
We can return the address of heap memory.
So if I am allocating a heap memory here, if I'm allocating a heap memory here, like I will take a
pointer and I will say new integer of size.
Suppose five and then I will also initialize this memory integer is sine zero is less than five and
I plus plus.
So what I will do is I will store values that is multiples of five.
I will store it p of I assign with five into a then finally I will say return return p.
So using this pointer it will create a heap memory of size five integers and it will initialize this
array of size with the multiples of five, five and 205 into one and so on.
And the values will be initialized and it will return this address that is allocated in heap.
So here inside the main function, I will declare one pointer Q and I will call the function and that
function will return the address of this heap memory.
Here in the main function, I will declare a pointer with the name Q and I will call this function.
So that function will allocate the memory in heap with the name P and it will return P.
So the address of that pointer will be stored here in Q and here I will display all these elements once
and let us see.
For Integer I assign zero is less than five I plus plus then I will say see out q of I then also l'll
let us run this and see.
Yeah, it is displaying the values first values zero, then five, then ten, then 15 and 20 because
there are five values.
Now here I would like to show you what is the address there in P.
So I will say see out P and and L let us see the what is the address in Q, C, out Q and NL.
See the speed's creating memory in heap and it is returning the address.
So that address I am displaying here and then it is returning the address.
Then here inside this function, that address is taken in queue and let us print this queue and see
what happens.
Oh the address that is there in P and the address that is there in Q both are same.
So it means Q is pointing on to the same memory.
So as heap memory is global to the program which can be accessed from any part of a program provided
address of that memory must be there.
So this function is sharing the address of this memory to the main function and the pointer.
Q is accessing that memory.
So that's it.
This is written by address.
So at some places we need the returning of value by address.
Now let us look at return by reference.
For that I will write on the function which returns a reference and here I will have some local variable
and I will say return x that is written by reference.
Now let us see what happens again.
I got the same warning.
That reference to stack memory associated with local variable x return.
So I cannot return the reference of local variable.
Then even reference is not a pointer to point on some heap memory then where it is useful.
So suppose I have a local variable and main function having value ten and its name is a.
Then I will call the function fund and I will pass a and let us make this function fun.
Take a reference variable x instead of having local variable declared.
Now what I am doing here is I'm just taking this value of a as reference and simply returning nothing
else.
I'm not doing anything, no modifications at all.
Then when it is written by reference, this x will come back here and the entire function becomes a
reference.
So who's the reference ID?
This is a reference of local variable of main.
Main is having a a sent to this x and x is a reference to same a and then it returns.
So this becomes a, this becomes a.
So you can see this, it is taking a parameter as reference and returning same thing as reference.
So here this becomes a so it means can I assign something to here a here, let us see.
I will display this value of a So what I should get, I should get the value as 25 yeah.
It's not an error.
So I can write function call on the left hand side of assignment so it works as a value.
Let us run this here value quantifies the stored in a so it's working that's it.
This is written by reference.
So this is useful at some places.
We will see where it is useful, both written by address and written by reference.
I will use it in some examples.
This was just the introduction.